Chocolate Chip Cookies
Yield 5 dozen
1 cup sugar
1⁄2 cup brown sugar firmly packed
1 cup shortening
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs
2 1⁄4 cups flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 (12 ounce) package chocolate chips
Preheat oven to 375°.
In a mixing bowl, cream together the first five ingredients.
After creaming the first five ingredients add the last four and make sure everything is mixed together well.
Drop by tablespoonfuls on to cookie sheets and bake for 9-10 minutes.
For M&M cookies: Replace chocolate chips with M&M plain baking bits.


Sugar Cookies
Yield 2 dozen
2 large eggs
2⁄3 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla
3⁄4 cup white sugar
2 cups flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
Beat together eggs, oil, vanilla and sugar; add flour, baking powder and salt and mix well.
Drop by heaping teaspoon approx 3" apart on an ungreased cookie sheet.
Flatten with bottom of glass moistened with water and dipped in sugar.
Bake at 400°F for 6-10 minutes or just until lightly golden.



Oatmeal Raisin Cookies
Yield 3 dozen
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 cup dark brown sugar, firmly packed
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 cups oats (not instant)
1 1⁄2 cups raisins
Preheat oven to 350°.
Whisk dry ingredients; set aside.
Combine wet ingredients with a hand mixer on low.
To cream, increase speed to high and beat until fluffy and the color lightens.
Stir the flour mixture into the creamed mixture until no flour is visible.
(Over mixing develops the gluten, making a tough cookie.) Now add the oats and raisins; stir to incorporate.
Fill a #40 cookie scoop and press against side of bowl, pulling up to level dough (to measure 2 tablespoons of dough).
Drop 2-inches apart onto baking sheet sprayed with nonstick spray.
Bake 11-13 minutes (on center rack), until golden, but still moist beneath cracks on top.
Remove from oven; let cookies sit on baking sheet for 2 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool.


Snickerdoodle Cookies
Yields 2 dozen
1 cup butter
1 1⁄2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 3⁄4 cups flour
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1⁄4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons sugar
3 teaspoons cinnamon
Mix butter, 1 1/2 cups sugar and eggs thoroughly in a large bowl.
Combine flour, cream of tartar, baking soda and salt in a separate bowl.
Blend dry ingredients into butter mixture.
Chill dough, and chill an ungreased cookie sheet for about 10-15 minutes in the fridge.
Meanwhile, mix 3 tablespoons sugar, and 3 teaspoons cinnamon in a small bowl.
Scoop 1 inch globs of dough into the sugar/ cinnamon mixture.
Coat by gently rolling balls of dough in the sugar mixture.
Place on chilled ungreased cookie sheet, and bake 10 minutes.
Remove from pan immediately.



Double Chocolate Cookies
Yields 3 dozen
1 cup butter
1 cup white sugar
3⁄4 cup brown sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 3⁄4 cups flour
1 1⁄4 cups cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1⁄2 teaspoon salt
2 cups white chocolate chips
Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
In a large bowl, cream together the butter, brown sugar and white sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs one at a time. Add vanilla.
In another bowl, combine the flour, cocoa, salt and baking soda and gradually add to the creamed mixture. Fold in chocolate chips. Drop by rounded spoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheet.
Bake for 10-12 minutes until puffy but still soft. Allow cookies to cool on baking sheet for 5 minutes before removing to a wire rack to cool completely.